so we're looking at whether babies are
making decisions about what is good and
bad behavior and as adults we make these
sorts of decisions all the time but we
think of it as something that we have to
teach children and what we want to look
at today is where they're actually
babies before they've really had a
chance we taught this are already making
these decisions all the babies taking
part are just twelve months or younger
and these babies are super young it's
much earlier than we would expect them
to be thinking in these ways I first to
watch the show is Josh but if he could
hold Josh so that he's looking at the
puppet show the show features both good
guys and villains the red circle puppet
attempts to climb the hill but the nasty
blue square pushes it down and then the
helpful yellow triangle helps the red
circle up the hill once the show's over
josh has a decision to make will he
choose the good puppet or they're bad
puppet would you like to choose one
little guy next to choose is 12 month
old fuzzy
[Music]
how about sunny
so far they've all chosen the good
puppet seeming to make quite
sophisticated decisions about what kind
of behavior they prefer there's no sound
there's no story being told and yet even
with children this young with babies you
know before they're talking they're
already making judgments about what's
good and bad behavior yeah I was amazed
actually that he went straight for that
one and it was a very clear decision he
obviously knows what's right to be able
to glimpse this decision-making in
babies as young as ten months is
incredible but we're going to push it
even further testing babies who are just
seven months old will be at rest be able
to tell good from bad
hello would you like to choose one if
you want to pick one oh you'd go okay
straighten them out is at least I know
and totally like right in there she knew
exactly which one she wanted it's
amazing that maybe that young can tell
the difference these babies are so young
there's so much younger the unit expect
them to know the difference between
right and wrong if they had to learn it
by being taught by their parents so it's
knowing right and wrong is a neat innate
or very
you